# Learning Omeka (Professors) {#learning-omeka-professors .entry-title}

## Basics

### Miriam Posner is the best

Her [two-pager quickstart
guide](http://miriamposner.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/Up-and-Running-with-Omeka2.pdf)
(PDF)

Her [tutorial on Programming Historian for working with
Omeka.net](https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/up-and-running-with-omeka.html)

She and Megan Brett together wrote a [tutorial on Programming Historian
for creating an Omeka
exhibit](https://programminghistorian.org/en/lessons/creating-an-omeka-exhibit)

### Omeka's Own Documentation

[Tip sheet (especially good for
vocabulary)](https://omeka.org/files/docs/OmekaWorkshopTipSheet.pdf)
from George Mason University, the creator and maintainer of Omeka

### Amanda French, "Introduction to Omeka --- Lesson Plan"

Amanda's an old hand from George Mason, where Omeka was created, and has
taught it many times. She posted [a resource outlining how she teaches
Omeka](http://amandafrench.net/2013/11/12/introduction-to-omeka-lesson-plan/),
which may give you some ideas for how knowledge about Omeka builds.

### Higher Education Resources

The College of Wooster Library has [one of the better
libguides](https://libguides.wooster.edu/c.php?g=629900&p=4396906) on
getting oriented and started with Omeka.

The [Cornell University Library Guide to Omeka
Basics](http://guides.library.cornell.edu/c.php?g=299438&p=1999932) is
pretty good, too. Includes a brief rundown of the metadata standard used
in Omeka. Others here have larger explanations of Dublin Core.

Duke University Wired! Lab [Tutorials on Omeka and
Neatline](http://www.dukewired.org/workshops/tutorials/#tab-id-4). A
handful of documents that are reasonably good. Not all are
non-duplicative with other links here, but they also have something on
[assessing the
work](https://sites.duke.edu/digital/2017/07/26/assessing-student-work-omeka-neatline/),
including a sample rubric.

### Jeff McClurken (UMW) on ProfHacker

[Teaching with Omeka
post](https://www.chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/teaching-with-omeka/26078)
that is real old and a little outdated. But if you have the time, it's
nice to see older thinking as well. Connects to other discussion of
Omeka on ProfHacker.

## Getting into the Weeds

### Altering Metadata Fields

Not a bad [step-through of how to teach using
Omeka.net](https://historicalthings.wordpress.com/using-omeka/using-omeka-for-teachers/).
In particular, the blog post points to Omeka's documentation on [how to
adjust some metadata
fields](https://info.omeka.net/build-a-website/manage-item-types/).
Though I don't see a mention in the post, [the core metadata fields can
also be commented and
rearranged](https://info.omeka.net/build-a-website/manage-element-sets/).

### More of Omeka's Documentation

-   [User guide](https://omeka.org/classic/docs/)
-   [Developer documentation](https://omeka.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
-   [Discussion forums](https://forum.omeka.org/c/omeka-classic)
-   [Omeka.net guide](https://info.omeka.net/build-a-website/)

## Reflections on Working with Omeka

### Students

UMD Michelle Smith Collaboratory for Visual Culture, Omeka/Neatline
Roundtable: [Part I, Goals and
Audience](https://michellesmithcollaboratory.umd.edu/blog/omekaneatline-roundtable-part-i-goals-and-audience)
and [Part II, Technicalities and
Takeaways](http://michellesmithcollaboratory.umd.edu/blog/omekaneatline-roundtable-part-ii-technicalities-and-takeaways).
Students talk about their work with Omeka and Neatline, the whys and why
nots. Even if you don't anticipate working with Neatline, their thoughts
on it are intertwined with their reflections on Omeka generally.

### Faculty

A professor from (at the time) the Department of Ethnic Studies at
Bowling Green State University [wrote for the Omeka project site about
student discomfort and student
learning](https://omeka.org/news/2016/08/16/gp-cant-we-just-write-a-paper/).

### Scholarly Publications

DeSpain, Jessica. ["On Building Things: Student-Designed Print and
Digital Exhibits in the Book History
Class."](https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.5325/trajincschped.22.1.0025)
*Transformations: The Journal of Inclusive Scholarship and Pedagogy* 22,
no. 1 (2011): 25--36.

Green, Harriett E. ["Fostering Assessment Strategies for Digital
Pedagogy through Faculty--Librarian Collaborations: An Analysis of
Student-Generated Multimodal Digital
Scholarship."](https://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt163t7kq.13) In *Laying
the Foundation: Digital Humanities in Academic Libraries* 7:179--204.
Charleston Insights in Library, Archival, and Information Sciences. West
Lafayette, IN: Purdue University Press, 2016.
<https://doi.org/10.2307/j.ctt163t7kq.13>.

Sibaja, Rwany. ["Omeka to *Â¡Animales!*: Building a Digital Repository of
Research on Argentine Soccer."](https://muse.jhu.edu/article/666545)
*Journal of Sport History* 44, no. 2 (August 8, 2017): 209--24.
